                                   Methods

A method is a block of code which only runs when it is called.
You can pass data, known as parameters, into a method.
Methods are used to perform certain actions, and they are also known as functions.
Why use methods? To reuse code: define the code once, and use it many times.

1. Create a Method
A method must be declared within a class. It is defined with the name of the method,
followed by parentheses (). Java provides some pre-defined methods, such as System.out
println(), but you can also create your own methods to perform certain actions:

public class Main {
  static void myMethod() {
    // code to be executed
  }
}

Example Explained
myMethod() is the name of the method
static means that the method belongs to the Main class and not an object of the Main class.
void means that this method does not have a return value.

2. Call a Method
To call a method in Java, write the method's name followed by two parentheses () and a semicolon;
In the following example, myMethod() is used to print a text (the action), when it is called:

Example
Inside main, call the myMethod() method:

public class Main {
  static void myMethod() {
    System.out.println("I just got executed!");
  }

  public static void main(String[] args) {
    myMethod();
  }
}

// Outputs "I just got executed!"

                          Types of methods

Methods in Java can be broadly classified into two types:

Predefined
User-defined

1. Predefined Methods
As the name gives it, predefined methods in Java are the ones that the Java class libraries
already define. This means that they can be called and used anywhere in our program without
defining them. There are numerous predefined methods, such as length(), sqrt(), max(), and
print(), and each of them is defined inside their respective classes.

2. User-defined Methods
Custom methods defined by the user are known as user-defined methods. It is possible to modify
and tweak these methods according to the situation. Here’s an example of a user-defined method.